README.md, before:

# Employee Expense Reporting App

This repository contains a Flask-based **employee expense reporting application**.
It helps employees submit expense reports, supervisors review and approve them,
and administrators manage policy, users, and system settings.

> Note: The codebase also contains legacy freight-quote modules. The primary
> product direction documented here is the employee expense workflow.

## What the app does

- Employee authentication (register, sign in, reset password)
- Expense report creation and submission
- Supervisor review and approval workflow
- Admin dashboards for user and settings management
- Audit-friendly persistence of submitted reports and status changes

## Core user flows

1. **Employee submits a report**
   - Create a new expense report
   - Add expense details and submit for review
2. **Supervisor reviews**
   - View pending reports
   - Approve or reject with feedback
3. **Employee tracks status**
   - Monitor report status and review outcomes

## Project structure

- `flask_app.py`, `app.py`, `expenses.py`: application entrypoints and expense routes
- `services/expense_workflow.py`: workflow logic for report lifecycle actions
- `templates/expenses/`: employee and supervisor expense UI templates
- `models.py`: persistence models used by authentication and expense workflows
- `tests/`: automated tests, including expense workflow and form validation coverage

## Local development

1. Use **Python 3.8+**
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
   ```
3. Configure environment variables (`.env`) for database, secret key, and app settings
4. Run database setup/migrations as needed
5. Start the app locally:
   ```bash
   python flask_app.py
   ```
6. Open the app in your browser and navigate to the expense reporting pages

## Testing

Run the full test suite before committing:

```bash
pytest
```

## Additional docs

- [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md): technical architecture focused on expense reporting
- [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md): deployment guide for running this app in production

Commit message:

Remove legacy quote admin/models and add archive-drop migration

README.md, after:

# Employee Expense Reporting App

This repository contains a Flask-based **employee expense reporting application**.
It helps employees submit expense reports, supervisors review and approve them,
and administrators manage policy, users, and system settings.

> Note: The codebase also contains legacy freight-quote modules. The primary
> product direction documented here is the employee expense workflow.

## What the app does

- Employee authentication (register, sign in, reset password)
- Expense report creation and submission
- Supervisor review and approval workflow
- Admin dashboards for user and settings management
- Audit-friendly persistence of submitted reports and status changes

## Core user flows

1. **Employee submits a report**
   - Create a new expense report
   - Add expense details and submit for review
2. **Supervisor reviews**
   - View pending reports
   - Approve or reject with feedback
3. **Employee tracks status**
   - Monitor report status and review outcomes

## Project structure

- `flask_app.py`, `app.py`, `expenses.py`: application entrypoints and expense routes
- `services/expense_workflow.py`: workflow logic for report lifecycle actions
- `templates/expenses/`: employee and supervisor expense UI templates
- `models.py`: persistence models used by authentication and expense workflows
- `tests/`: automated tests, including expense workflow and form validation coverage

## Local development

1. Use **Python 3.8+**
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
   ```
3. Configure environment variables (`.env`) for database, secret key, and app settings
4. Run database setup/migrations as needed
5. Start the app locally:
   ```bash
   python flask_app.py
   ```
6. Open the app in your browser and navigate to the expense reporting pages


## Legacy quote data cleanup

Legacy quote maintenance tables (accessorials, hotshot rates, beyond rates, air cost zones, ZIP zones, and rate upload logs) have been retired from the admin UI and ORM model layer.

A migration script is provided at `migrations/versions/20260205_01_archive_and_drop_legacy_quote_tables.py` that archives each retired table into an `archive_<table>_<revision>` backup table before dropping the original table.

## Testing

Run the full test suite before committing:

```bash
pytest
```

## Additional docs

- [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md): technical architecture focused on expense reporting
- [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md): deployment guide for running this app in production
